Version 1.1 - January 10, 2004
287 camo schemes
- added 1st Argyle Lancers, 1st Crucis Lancers RCT, Com Guards 7th Army V-Iota, 3rd
  Ghost, 6th Donegal Guard, Caesar's Cohorts, Killer Bees (Ceremonial), Langendorf
  Lancers, and Tooth of Ymir
- revised Death Commandos


Version 1.0 - December 3, 2003
278 camo schemes
- initial release


The camo files included in the file contain only canon schemes and those accepted
as standard by the BattleTech community on www.camospecs.com. (For the language-
challenged, canon means only real FASA/WizKids/FanPro fiction, not custom.) As such
some factions are poorly represented, or not at all. If there's not a camo file for
your favorite faction, do what everyone else does: hire Mercs.

Sources:
	1632	Camo Specs
			* Most House and Mercenary units
	1640	The BattleTech Compendium
			* Third Wolf Lancers and Jade Falcon Eta Trinary (from the
			  dioramas between pages 120 and 121)
	1659	Solaris: The Reaches
			* Minor Solaris VII Stables (inferred from pages 12 to 14)
	1660	Solaris VII: The Game World
			* Major Solaris VII stables (inferred from Gamemaster's Book,
			  pages 16 to 21)
	1706	Field Manual: Crusader Clans
			* Most Crusader Clan schemes (from artwork between pages
			  128 and 129)
	1707	BattleTech Master Rules
			* Northwind Highlanders (artwork opposite page 49)
			* Several schemes (from dioramas between pages 96 and 97)
	1709	The Clans: Warriors of Kerensky
			* Ebon Keshik (page 53)
	1711	Field Manual: Warden Clans
			* Most Warden Clan schemes (from artwork between pages 112
			  and 113)
	1725	MechWarrior's Guide to the Clans
			* Katyusha Keshik (inferred from front cover)
	10976	Field Manual: Updates
			* Raventhir's Iron Hand (from front cover and page 5)
	10981	Miniatures Rules
			* Several schemes (from dioramas on pages 7 and 9, artwork
			  on pages 18 to 30, dioramas on pages 31 to 33, dioramas
			  on pages 60 to 63, and miniatures on page 74)
	WWW	CamoSpecs.com
			* Many more schemes. Most future schemes will come from this
                          site now that its gotten permission from Fan Pro to
                          create official paint schemes for units that have none.
			

Got canon artwork not included in this file? Make a camo file (or if you're lazy,
scan a high quality image of the artwork) and send it to me at jdg00@bellsouth.net
with the source and page number included in the email. If it passes judgement of
others it'll get added to future updates to this file.




All unit numbers in this file are written in short-hand numric form, even if the
unit typically uses the long written form. (An exception is the Twelfth Star Guard
mercenary unit, whose name does not imply that it is the twelfth regiment of a
larger unit named the Star Guard.)

Military Force Abbreviations used in this file:
	AFFS		Armed Forces of the Federated Suns (House Davion)
	AMC		Alliance Military Corps
	CBS		Clan Blood Spirit
	CCAF		Capellan Confederation Armed Forces (House Liao)
	CCC		Clan Cloud Cobra
	CCY		Clan Coyote
	CDS		Clan Diamond Shark
	CF		Circinus Federation [Military]
	CFM		Clan Fire Mandrill
	CGB		Clan Ghost Bear
	CGS		Clan Goliath Scorpion
	CHH		Clan Hell's Horses
	CIH		Clan Ice Hellion
	CJF		Clan Jade Falcon
	Clan		General Clan Forces
	ComStar		ComStar Com Guards
	CNC		Clan Nova Cat
	CP		Calderon Protectorate [Military]
	CSA		Clan Star Adder
	CSJ		Clan Smoke Jaguar
	CSR		Clan Snow Raven
	CSV		Clan Steel Viper
	CWF		Clan Wolf
	CWiE		Clan Wolf-in-Exile
	DCMS		Draconis Combine Mustered Soldiery (House Kurita)
	FRCM		Fronc Reaches Colonial Marshals
	FRRK		Free Rasalhague Republic Kungsarme
	FWLM		Free Worlds League Military (House Marik)
	LCAF		Lyran Commonwealth Armed Forces (House Steiner)
	MAF		Magistracy Armed Forces
	Merc		Mercenary
	MHAF		Marian Hegemony Armed Forces
	Pirate		Pirate
	S7		Solaris VII Stables
	SIAC		St. Ives Armored Cavalry
	SLDF		Star League Defense Force
	TDF		Taurian Defense Forces
	WoB		Word of Blake Militia

Some notes about affiliations:
* There are no AFFC (Armed Forces of the Federated Commonwealth) schemes. You
  can assume either AFFS or LCAF units can be part of the AFFC.
* LCAF would naturally become LAAF shortly before the FedCom Civil War.
* The RCT (Regimental Combat Team) designation are appended to AFFS/AFFC/LCAF/
  LAAF units if any source supports the unit ever was an RCT. The Lyran units
  would not be RCTs until the exchange program with the AFFS began in the 3030s.
* The same schemes can be used for both Clan Wolf and Clan Wolf-in-Exile.
* Some units may be strongly affiliated with a faction and still be considered
  mercenary. A good example is McCarron's Armored Cavalry: as close to a House
  unit (in this case, the CCAF) as mercenary units can get. If there is a canon
  source to prove they ever were mercenary, they are classified as mercenary
  here, even if contradicted by later (and usually less-detailed) sources.
* Obviously some units would be absorbed into another faction during their
  lifetime. The Blackwind Lancers and First St. Ives Lancers both jumped from
  the CCAF to the SIAC when the St. Ives Compact was formed, and then became
  CCAF units again when the Compact was reconquered. They are treated as SIAC
  unit in this file to give that small faction some of its own schemes,
  distinct from the other CCAF schemes.
* Some independant contractors and/or foreign nationals, like the Outland
  Legion, are placed into the Mercenary group even though they aren't hired or
  paid like mercenaries.
* The First Alliance Air Wing is an aerospace unit, but since there are no
  sources of ground based units for the Outworlds Alliance, it has to do.
* After the absorbtion of Kindraa Kline into Mick-Kreese, the scheme for
  Mick-Kreese could also be applicable to those former Kline units.
* Likewise, the Kindraa Payne scheme could be used by former Beyl-Grant units
  after the combination of the two to form Kindraa Payne-Beyl-Grant.
* Clan Nova Cat's 1st Garrison Cluster is renamed the 1st Carabinieri Cluster
  when they join the Star League.  The former name is used here.
* Calderon's Commandos are listed as both a standard unit of the Calderon
  Protectorate and as pirates in Field Manual: Updates (p. 203 and 204.)
  Becuase two of the three battalions are pirates, this is how the unit itself
  is classified here.
* Prior to and during the Civil War, the 1st Federated Suns Lancers was named
  the 1st Federated Commonwealth Corps.





Don't steal these artwork files and call it your own work. It took me many,
many days to make these and I'll be pissed if someone uses them without giving
due credit. Email me [jdg00@bellsouth.net] before using these files in
connection with any other work.  If you improve upon the schemes in this file,
with, for example, more accurate colors, send me the updated camo file and I'll
replace mine with yours.

Anyone that emails me should offer something constructive. Anything that didn't
require a little bit of thought before blurting out or doesn't help me make the
artwork in this file better will be promptly deleted. I'm open to advice, not to
insults.

There are no plans to ever include Dark Age schemes in this file. MegaMek only
supports Classic BattleTech and so shall this file.

- Wick
(Jonathan Griffith)